Dizzy Rusty Osprey

Medium

# `Controller`'s core function of Rebalance will not rebalance when rebalance is needed in some cases, breaking core functionality

**Summary**
One of the main `Controller`'s functions is `rebalanceGroup`, which rebalances collateral between several markets in a pre-set ratio. The issue is that the rebalance is not done if the market collateral is 0, even if the target collateral is not 0. This happens, because the `RebalanceLib.checkMarket` incorrectly returns `canRebalance = false` in such case:
```solidity
    if (marketCollateral.eq(Fixed6Lib.ZERO)) return (false, targetCollateral);
```
This leads to core functionality not working in certain circumstances, for example when user adds a new market without any collateral and the rebalance threshold is high enough so that the other markets do not trigger a rebalance. This might, in turn, lead to a loss of funds for the user since he won't be able to open the position in this new market, as his collateral will remain 0 after rebalance, and will lose funds due to missed opportunity or due to lack of hedge the market expected to provide to the user.

**Root Cause**
`RebalanceLib.checkMarket` returns `canRebalance = false` when market's current collateral is 0, regardless of what target is:
https://github.com/sherlock-audit/2024-08-perennial-v2-update-3/blob/main/perennial-v2/packages/perennial-account/contracts/libs/RebalanceLib.sol#L27

**Internal pre-conditions**
1. User's `collateral = 0` in a market which is added to `Controller` rebalance config.
2. Rebalance config's `threshold` is high enough not to trigger rebalance in the other markets

**External pre-conditions**
None

**Attack Path**
Happens by itself when user calls `Controller.rebalanceGroup` - the collateral is not rebalanced and the new market remains without collateral.

Example:
1. User had rebalance config for market1 (0.5) and market2 (0.5), `threshould = 0.2 (20%)`
2. User had market1 collateral = 50, market2 collateral = 50
3. User changes rebalance config to market1 (0.4), market2 (0.4), market3 (0.2).
4. `Controller.rebalanceGroup` reverts, because `canRebalance = false` even though the market3 should be rebalanced to have some funds.

Note, that if the market3 has even 1 wei of collateral in the example, `rebalanceGroup` will do the re-balancing, meaning that the collateral of 0 should also trigger re-balancing.

**Impact**
1. Core `Controller` functionality is broken (doesn't rebalance when it should)
2. As a result user can lose funds as he won't be able to open positions in the new market where he expected to have collateral after rebalance. For example, if the market was intended to hedge some other user position, inability to open position will expose the user to a market price risk he didn't expect to take and will lose substantial funds due to this.

**PoC**
Not needed

**Mitigation**
When market collateral is 0, return false only if `targetCollateral == 0`, otherwise return true:
```solidity
    if (marketCollateral.eq(Fixed6Lib.ZERO)) return (!targetCollateral.eq(Fixed6Lib.ZERO), targetCollateral);
```
