Dizzy Rusty Osprey

Medium

# `MultiInvoker` and `Manager` orders execution can be DOS in key moments if AAVE/Compound utilization is at 100%

**Summary**
Perennial contracts rely on the `DSU` token, which is essentially a wrapper for the `USDC` token. There are 2 in-scope implementations of `DSU` wrappers (`reserve`) which use part of the protocol reserves to deposit into external protocols (AAVE and Compound). Any time the protocol tries to unwrap (`redeem`) from the `reserve` (basically convert `DSU` to `USDC`), some funds are withdrawn from the AAVE or Compound.

The issue is that both AAVE and Compound allow to withdraw only the difference between the pool's supply and debt. This means that the withdrawal operation might revert in case of 100% utilization (supply ~= debt). This can happen by itself (and has happened in the past during some periods) or be intentionally forced by anyone by temporarily taking out all available AAVE/Compound funds as a debt, and then later repaying it to DOS certain operations to Perennial users.

In particular, all `MultiInvoker` and `Manager` withdrawals with unwrap flag set are vulnerable to this DOS. Each `MultiInvoker` or `Manager` action charges `interfaceFee` by withdrawing it from user's market balance and if `unwrap` flag is set, it's converted to USDC via `batcher` or `reserve` (if `batcher` is not set or empty). Since this conversion to USDC will revert in `reserve`, entire `MultiInvoker` or `Manager` transaction will revert as well. The most impactful operation seems to be the stop loss or take profit orders execution - attacker can monitor the `MultiInvoker` and `Manager` limit orders and when the stop loss price is near, execute this attack to delay the execution of these orders until the price becomes much worse, thus users will lose funds due to delay in their orders execution, getting much worse price than what they could get if not for the attack.

**Root Cause**
`MultiInvoker` charges interface fee in `_update`:
https://github.com/sherlock-audit/2024-08-perennial-v2-update-3/blob/main/perennial-v2/packages/perennial-extensions/contracts/MultiInvoker.sol#L241-L242

`_chargeFee` unwraps `DSU` if `unwrap` is set to `true`:
https://github.com/sherlock-audit/2024-08-perennial-v2-update-3/blob/main/perennial-v2/packages/perennial-extensions/contracts/MultiInvoker.sol#L310

`_unwrap` redeems from reserve:
https://github.com/sherlock-audit/2024-08-perennial-v2-update-3/blob/main/perennial-v2/packages/perennial-extensions/contracts/MultiInvoker.sol#L370

`redeem` allocates:
https://github.com/sherlock-audit/2024-08-perennial-v2-update-3/blob/main/emptyset-mono/packages/emptyset-reserve/contracts/reserve/ReserveBase.sol#L81

`_allocate` calls `_update` to allocate/deallocate to match allocated amount to target amount according to strategy:
https://github.com/sherlock-audit/2024-08-perennial-v2-update-3/blob/main/emptyset-mono/packages/emptyset-reserve/contracts/reserve/ReserveBase.sol#L137

`reserve` withdraws from AAVE when allocating:
https://github.com/sherlock-audit/2024-08-perennial-v2-update-3/blob/main/emptyset-mono/packages/emptyset-reserve/contracts/reserve/strategy/AaveV3FiatReserve.sol#L66-L67

`reserve` withdraws from Compound when allocating:
https://github.com/sherlock-audit/2024-08-perennial-v2-update-3/blob/main/emptyset-mono/packages/emptyset-reserve/contracts/reserve/strategy/CompoundV3FiatReserve.sol#L61-L62

The same happens in `Manager`:
https://github.com/sherlock-audit/2024-08-perennial-v2-update-3/blob/main/perennial-v2/packages/perennial-order/contracts/Manager.sol#L196
https://github.com/sherlock-audit/2024-08-perennial-v2-update-3/blob/main/perennial-v2/packages/perennial-order/contracts/Manager.sol#L218

**Internal pre-conditions**
1. Reserve uses either AAVE or Compound strategy
2. `Reserve.allocation` is not 0
3. User has created a `MultiInvoker` or `Manager` order with `interfaceFee.unwrap` or `interfaceFee2.unwrap` set to true.

**External pre-conditions**
Market price is within the order's execution range

**Attack Path**
1. Attacker empties the `batcher` if it's set in `MultiInvoker` and `Manager` and not empty. Exact steps depend on the batcher implementation which is out of scope, but should be possible according to current implementation (depositing large amount of USDC to `batcher`, then immediately withdrawing it). Alternatively (if not possible), this should be additional pre-condition (no `batcher` set or `batcher` is empty).
2. Attacker deposits some token other than `USDC` into AAVE/Compound and takes out `USDC` debt to make AAVE/Compound `USDC` balance almost 0. Alternatively, this can happen by itself (and has happened in the past), in such case this is additional external pre-condition.
3. Attacker waits for some time, taking out more debt if needed to keep AAVE/Compound `USDC` balance close to 0.
4. All this time `MultiInvoker` and `Manager` orders execution is blocked
5. Once the price is far enough from where it was, attacker repays the debt and withdraws amount supplied to AAVE/Compound

**Impact**
- User order is executed at a much worse price
- Or position is liquidated (in case the order was a stop-loss and price moved beyound liquidation price)
- Or user order is not executed (in case the order is take profit and the price had moved away from the execution range)

In all 3 cases user losses funds.

This attack can be intentionally caused by attacker, or can happen by itself (but much less probable). If it is caused by attacker, this is then mostly a griefing attack as there is no profit for the attacker, although the attacker might be a maker and want to avoid closure of the large position which has an order in `MultiInvoker`.

The same issue also causes all user attempts to exit `DSU` to `USDC` revert for some time, including `MultiInvoker` withdrawal orders (but probably less severe as not as time-critical as positional orders execution).

**PoC**
Not needed

**Mitigation**
It's probably impossible to do anything in such circumstances to convert `DSU` to `USDC`, however it's still possible to keep orders execution, keeping all funds in `DSU`. So one possible mitigation is to force all interface fee to be in `DSU` only (so remove the `unwrap` field from interface fee). Alternatively, if some interfaces only support USDC, maybe accumulate their fee in `DSU` and let them manually claim USDC if needed (so that it's not time-critical and can be done when unwrapping is available again)